blip-0004: experimental endorsement signaling in update_add_htlc (#27)
lightning/blips: blip-0004.md

bit signaling and a flag day are used to allow senders to set `endorsed` to `7`
without leaking their identity as the original sender of the HTLC.

1. Nodes on the network upgrade to support sending and forwarding zero value 
  `endorsed` signals.
2. Choose a `experiment_start` parameter based on deployment of the 
  `htlc_endorsed` signal on the network.
3. After `experiment_start` has passed, sending nodes start to set `endorsed` 
   to `7` as described above.
4. When `experiment_end` is reached, sending node on the network stop setting 
   the experimental `endorsed` field and intermediate nodes will stop 
   relaying it, so the signal will cease to propagate through the network.

### Deprecation

If `endorsement` is merged to the BOLTs, the experimental field will naturally 
be deprecated when `experiment_end` is reached. 

1. Nodes on the network may freely use an endorsement signal defined by the 
   BOLTs, even if `experiment_end` has not yet been reached, as the experimental 
   signal described in this bLIP is distinct from one outlined in the BOLTs.
2. Once `experiment_end` has been reached, all nodes will stop relaying the 
   experimental signal.

> 3. In the next upgrade, experimental code can safely be removed as it has been 

Author: done

   deprecated across the network.

## Motivation

The emergent properties of network-wide changes to Lightning are difficult to 
fully grasp without gathering real world data. This bLIP outlines a lightweight

> and reversible mechanism to assess the impact of this change so that we can 

Author: > If endorsed usage starts to alter routing paths scoring algorithms buckets

Added an additional sentence to specify that the intent of this experimental field is to be read-only to inform reputation algorithms - it should not be used to allocate resources. The aim is to get an idea how various algorithms perform with real world data, not prematurely deploy anything that impacts actual traffic 👍

direct further specification in an informed manner.

## Rationale

Endorsement signals are copied from the incoming `update_add_htlc` to allow 
positive signals to propagate through the network. Nodes wishing to participate
in active experimentation may set this signal according to their local 
reputation algorithm, and this signal will be passively propagated by the 

> remainder of the route. 

Reviewer: I think this is assuming the remainder of the route supports `htlc_endorsed`. I believe routing algorithms might select non-supporting `htlc_endorsed` intermediary routing hops just because cheap `fee_base_msat` / `fee_proportional_millionths`.

Author: Indeed, given that we'll only start setting a positive number when a good portion of the network is upgraded it felt like a fair assumption. 

That said, updated to "the upgraded portion of the route" to be crystal clear.

```
bLIP: 4
Title: Experimental Endorsement Signaling
Status: Active
Author: Carla Kirk-Cohen <carla@chaincode.com>
Created: 2024-01-12
License: CC0
```

## Abstract

HTLC endorsement signaling is a [proposed](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1071) 
component of a [hybrid approach](https://research.chaincode.com/2022/11/15/unjamming-lightning) 
to addressing [channel jamming attacks](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/channel-jamming-attacks) 
against the Lightning Network. This bLIP outlines a proposal to deploy an 
experimental endorsement TLV to the network to provide real world data to 
inform specification of reputation algorithms.

## Copyright

This bLIP is licensed under the CC0 license.

## Specification

Experiment Parameters:
* `flag_day`: [TODO]

### Adding an HTLC: `update_add_htlc`:

1. `tlv_stream`: `update_add_htlc_tlvs`
    1. type: 65555 (`endorsed`)
    2. data:
        * [`byte`:`endorsed`]
 
Sender:

> * if it is the original source of the HTLC and `flag_day` has passed:

Reviewer: A `flag_day` can be specified in BIP113 median-time-past for more robust uniform deployment.

Author: Seems unnecessary for a rollout that does not need the tight coordination of a consensus change.

Reviewer: I agree, you might have a bit of endorsment "false positives" data around the `flag_day` though sounds ok.

with `endorsed`=7 and unendorsed otherwise.

> 

Reviewer 2: If you want a binary endorsement, less than 4 should be unendorsed and 4 or more should be endorsed.

Author: WDYT about only defining the extremes in the blip to allow more flexibility: 
* Endorsed if `endorsed =7`
* Unendorsed if `endorsed =0`
* Otherwise up to the reputation algorithm's interpretation

Because in the binary scheme Clara and I are working on, we wouldn't want to count something that only got 50% (ie, a 4 in the proposed scheme) as endorsed.

Reviewer 2: The problem is that a node that uses the full range 0 - 7 will very rarely set `endorsed` to 7. I agree that we should not specify what counts or not as endorsed, everyone should use the threshold they're comfortable with, but 7 is extreme.
My idea was that "endorsement" should correspond to the confidence that the HTLC will succeed. I think that's how it should be understood by downstream nodes. And even in a perfect world I would expect a sizeable portion (more than 30%) of HTLCs to fail because of liquidity being on the other side of a channel.

Reviewer: I think there is some inference that does not follow the premises in saying "let's assume a perfect world" then introduce a percentage of HTLC failure. Either it's a perfect world and all HTLCs always succeed and all the channel are perfectly liquidity balanced on time, or we assume it's a deviation of such perfect world.

While it is plausible for someone to propose a mathematical theory of lightning liquidity and what such "perfect world" looks like, one should not forget that pure mathematic is an axiomatic science. As such there will be probably a lot of assumptions disqualifying the theory for the current goal of this blip to have network-wide measurement in the real-world of lightning. Recommending the field value to `7` can be more understood as an
arbitrary choice like done for key size parameters of cryptographic algorithms, one can start with a test value and once there is more practical experiences in its usage and those experiences have been dissected, a new value could be recommended.

Otherwise, I think there are not that much ways we can progress in the design of jamming mitigations in a lively dynamic system like lightning in a scientifically thorough way.

Reviewer 2: By "perfect world" I meant everyone being nice, no jamming and no holding HTLCs, because that's what this proposal is about. Having channels balanced is not a goal of this proposal and was not included in my "perfect world".

Reviewer: In the current lightning world where lightning HTLC can be freely settled or not by the payee under some timelock bounds, in coordination with the payer or not, I don't think there is a way to prevent "honest" failure to be dissociated from a jamming traffic. This without full visibility on the payment path from the viewpoint of an intermediary forwarding node, that I think cannot be achieved without removing onion encryption on the whole previous link.

The proposal is about putting in place protocol fields like `endorsed` to measure the efficiency of reputation algorithm on jamming and other phenomenas like holding HTLCs. This somehow starts from the observation that jamming is a plausible vector of attack on the lightning network, and if everyone was always _nice_ we wouldn't to have this conversation.

So under current lightning protocol has fundamentally deployed by all lightning implementations since the early days on mainet, I don't think it's possible to strictly dissociate a "nice" peer from a jamming attacker dissimulating jamming traffic in a mathematically well-defined fashion with your out of a hat 30% rate of failure.

Author: I've updated this to just specify the interpretation of `endorsed=7`/`endorsed=0` and left the remainder up to implementation's choice. 

> The problem is that a node that uses the full range 0 - 7 will very rarely set endorsed to 7. I agree that we should not specify what counts or not as endorsed, everyone should use the threshold they're comfortable with, but 7 is extreme.

It's inevitable that we run into this type of interpretation issue with multiple algorithms when we allow a range of endorsement values. This is one of the reasons that I think a binary signal is a better choice. That said, this is a read-only experiment with no impact on traffic, so I think that we should move forward with these permissive interpretation rules and see how the numbers shake out.

    * SHOULD set `endorsed` to `0`.
  * otherwise:  
    * SHOULD set `endorsed` to `1`.
* MAY choose to set `endorsed` to `0` for some percentage of payments to 
  prevent leaking its identity as the original sender.

Receiver:
* if `endorsed` is present and non-zero in the `update_add_htlc`:
  * if running an experimental reputation algorithm:
      * SHOULD set `endorsed` as specified by the algorithm.
    otherwise:
      * SHOULD set `endorsed` to `1`.

> * otherwise: 

Reviewer: Receiver "SHOULD" reject non 0 / 1 `endorsed` byte ? On the other hand forward compatibility.

Author: see [1](https://github.com/lightning/blips/pull/27#discussion_r1556198385)

> * otherwise: 

Reviewer 3: I think we can simplify this by saying

> May use its sole discretion to decide whether to endorse the outbound HTLC.

And then we can move discussions of reputation to the non-normative "Rationale" section.

Receiver:
* If the current time is less than `experiment_end`:
  * if running an experimental reputation algorithm:
    * SHOULD set `endorsed` at its discretion.
  * otherwise: 

>     * if `endorsed`=7 in the incoming `update_add_htlc`:
>         * SHOULD set `endorsed`=7 on its outgoing `update_add_htlc`
>     * otherwise: 
>       * SHOULD set `endorsed` to `0`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * SHOULD copy `endorsed` from the incoming `update_add_htlc` to the outgoing one.
```

But who is going to support the `endorsed` TLV and not run a reputation algorithm?

Author: LND won't ship a reputation algorithm, just the basic mechanics to relay the signal. The reputation algorithm will be implemented externally using its interceptor APIs, and people can opt-in to running it. 

I imagine a similar things will be true for CLN - ship basic mechanic by default and then add reputation as a plugin? cc: @vincenzopalazzo?

Reviewer: I think both Eclair and LDK have an architecture modular enough to add a reputation algorithm as an opt-in external module, Eclair has already a plugin interface (`Plugin.scala`) and LDK could have a runtime crate catching `endorsed`-supporting `HTLCIntercepted` event.

Usually, spec doesn't say how any feature should be supported at the node architecture-level, though here there would be a point to recommend the reputation algorithm to be an external process. If there is a DoS bug in the algorithm, it won't bring down the more safety primordial mechanisms of a LN node, e.g transactions broadcast.

Reviewer 2: Actually, thinking more about it I think it's a bad idea set an endorsement value if you don't run a reputation algorithm. If you copy blindly the incoming endorsement value, attackers will run their attacks through your node to use your reputation instead of theirs.
If you don't reputation to your peers, just always set `endorsed` to the same constant value regardless of the incomming `endorsed`, or don't set it at all.

Reviewer: I think this is not as simple as this. This is correct that an attacker can use another lightning node through which a jamming HTLC flow can be circulated, predicting that the `endorsed` value will be blindly copied to the outgoing HTLC.

On the other hand, a lightning node can have paid out-of-band fees to get inbound liquidity from said lightning
node forwarding a HTLC, and as such there is already a cost for whatever of the jamming on downstream channels.

Dropping out the incoming `endorsed` field or setting to a constant value will lead to an information loss on the outgoing HTLC flow, and in function of hypothetical reputation algorithms run by downstream channels not have the full benefit of the hypothetical reputation reward of routing "economically honest" HTLCs.

I think following this recommendation of dropping on the floor the `endorsed` field of incoming HTLC will introduce a bias at the detriment of "economically honest" lightning node, and this independently of channel topology considerations, when I think this blip goals aims solely to introduce minimal experimental protocol fields to allow measurements.

Author: > If you copy blindly the incoming endorsement value, attackers will run their attacks through your node to use your reputation instead of theirs.

This BLIP is for a read-only experimental field that allows us to see how reputation algorithms do in the wild. Nobody should be making routing decisions based on this information (`MUST NOT use the experimental `endorsed` field in resource allocation decisions.`), so this isn't an issue. 

> If you don't assign reputation to your peers, just always set endorsed to the same constant value regardless of the incomming endorsed, or don't set it at all.

Certainly agree for when we add a real endorsement signal to the bolts. 

I'm assuming that only a small number of nodes will actually run data collection/reputation algorithms for us. If the default behavior is to drop this signal, it'll be a pretty useless experiment.

1. Nodes on the network upgrade to support forwarding `endorsed` signals. 
2. Choose a `flag_day` parameter based on deployment of the `htlc_endorsed` 
   signal on the network.
3. After `flag_day` has passed, sending nodes start to set `endorsed` to `1` 
   as described above.

### Deprecation

If `endorsement` is merged to the BOLTs, the experimental signal can be 
deprecated in favor of the protocol-range field. If it is not, the signal 
can simply be deleted with no deprecation period.

1. Upgrade to protocol-range field: 

  Once nodes are updated to use the protocol-range field, they can stop
  advertising the experimental `htlc_endorsed` feature bit.

  Sender:
  * MUST set the same value for experimental and protocol-range field.

  Receiver:
  * if the protocol-range TLV is present: 
    * MUST interpret its value as the `endorsed` signal for the HTLC.
    otherwise, if the experimental TLV is present: 
    * SHOULD interpret the experimental value as the `endorsed` signal 
      for the HTLC.

2. Wait until the `htlc_endorsed` feature is no longer widely signaled on the 
   network, and implementations have gone through a release cycle to provide 

>    the upgrade.

Reviewer: A `deprecation_flag_day` sounds more robust to coordinate deprecation among release cycles.

3. Deprecate use of experimental field.

  Sender: 
  * MUST set the protocol-range field.
  * MUST NOT set the experimental range field.

  Receiver: 
  * MUST interpret the protocol-range field as the `endorsed` value for the HTLC.

## Motivation

The emergent properties of network-wide changes to Lightning are difficult to 
fully grasp without gathering real world data. This bLIP outlines a lightweight
and reversible mechanism to assess the impact of this change so that we can 
direct further specification in an informed manner.

## Rationale

Endorsement signals are copied from the incoming `update_add_htlc` to allow 
positive signals to propagate through the network. Nodes wishing to participate
in active experimentation may set this signal according to their local 
reputation algorithm, and this signal will be passively propagated by the 

> remainder of the route that is simply copying incoming values.

Reviewer 3: 🫡

A flag day is included to mitigate privacy concerns that setting the 
endorsement signal on payments will expose the identity of the original sender.
Nodes participating in the experiment will signal the `htlc_endorsed` feature 
in their node announcement to help chose an appropriate `flag_day`. Once a 
sufficient portion of the network is upgraded to relay these signals, the 
presence of positive endorsement does not expose the sender as the original 
source of the HTLC. Senders are also advised to only set a positive endorsement
signal for some percentage of payments to further protect sender privacy.

The `endorsed` TLV is encoded as a single `byte` rather than a boolean to allow
flexible experimentation. HTLCs that are not endorsed include a TLV with a zero
value byte so that they can be distinguished from those with no endorsement 

> signal, which can be filtered out of experimental data as null values.

Reviewer 3: Does this mean that endorsement is a scalar at the protocol level and that for now we are just using the binary 0 or 1?

Author: @thomash-acinq previously expressed interest in being able to experiment with a few more bits of information, which is why there's the option to have other values in here. For bolts/pull/1071 we only need a 1 or 0, but I can see the value of having a scalar in the experimental field _in case_ we discover we need it/ it's a good idea. 

@thomash-acinq - confirming that requirement still applies?

Reviewer 3: Regardless of what we do we should probably decide whether those extra bits will be used as a flag set, or a scalar as it impacts whether the expected 1 will be set all the time if it is endorsed or not.

Author: Right! I'd be happy to interpret as a scalar, and then any non-zero value should be considered to be endorsed?

Reviewer 3: I also think a scalar makes the most sense. I'd be happy going that route as well.

Reviewer 2: I think a scalar would allow us to be more precise in what HTLCs we accept or reject. An attacker could constantly jam the "not endorsed" bucket at no cost and new users would never get a chance to show that they behave well. I don't think I would use the full 8 bits as it could reveal the payment path but using 2 or 3 bits should not leak too much information and still separate active attackers from new or unlucky users.
However to be compatible with a binary endorsement, you should use the values `0` and `255`, not `0` and `1` as for someone using the full range, 0 and 1 would both mean "very likely to be an attack".

Author: > However to be compatible with a binary endorsement, you should use the values 0 and 255, not 0 and 1 as for someone using the full range, 0 and 1 would both mean "very likely to be an attack".

SGTM - will add some wording to capture this. 

I do however think that we should limit these values to the number of bits that we need (not allow use of the full 0-255 range) so that we avoid step-down-value privacy issues. If 3 bits is enough for your experiments, I'd say we go with `0 = unendorsed` and `7 = fully endorsed`?

Reviewer 3: I'm fine with this, but perhaps we can consider the alternative that you do all values from [0,255] and then fix privacy issues by limiting the recommended values to `n%(2^P)==0` where the recommended value is P=5 to start. This way you can increase precision later as the maximum possible anonymity set increases by stepping P down from 5 to 4 (thereby allowing more intermediate values without changing the overall semantics?

Do you see any issues with something like this? Is it even necessary? I just mention it because the idea popped into my head but would love someone to lmk if this is overkill.

Reviewer: > I'm fine with this, but perhaps we can consider the alternative that you do all values from [0,255] and then fix
> privacy issues by limiting the recommended values to n%(2^P)==0 where the recommended value is P=5 to start. > This way you can increase precision later as the maximum possible anonymity set increases by stepping P down
> from 5 to 4 (thereby allowing more intermediate values without changing the overall semantics?

This modular arithmetic trick can work to increase the precision in a backward compatible fashion, however I don't see the privacy increase of this approach. If you assume the recommendation on stepping P down from 5 to 4 is _public_, i.e in a spec, this can be leveraged by an observer to segment endorsement in two subset {P=4, P=5}, where the 1st subset is denotated by the _precision_ bit usage.

If you have a more robust privacy model, I'm curious to hear it. Though I don't see how fundamentally you can reconciliate the signal increase by a public encoding scheme while increasing the amount of noise for observers.

Of course channel nodes can always exchange out-of-band error-correction codes to mask more information about endorsement, though here I think you're making a point to have a flat bit structure, and move more advanced interpretation at the application-level, out of the specification. I do somehow think it's something better left for future discussion, it's just a BLIP about an experiment endorsement signaling field after-all.

For those reasons, I think to go with 3 bits is enough for experiments and `0 = unendorsed` and `7 = fully endorsed` sounds reasonable in my opinion.

Reviewer 3: To avoid bikeshedding I'm fine with a 3-bit model. I just don't see any reason why that's the correct choice.

That said, I don't think an observer can segment anything any more than it would otherwise. There are numerous methods to determine the implementation of the immediately preceding link and at the end of the day, the endorsement signal is offered by your upstream hop, not by the source, so I'm failing to see where the additional privacy leak is. This is more a curiosity for me because it means I'm failing to understand something you see. Either way, we can ship with 3 bits if you see fit.

In practice, I think the only useful values will be at the boundaries (min/max) since the notion of endorsement represents a willingness to bind your own reputation to the outcome of that htlc. Reputation measurements, and decisions made based on reputation are ultimately local so propagating intermediate values is likely to not lead anywhere interesting imo, but there's no harm in putting it in in case I'm wrong.

Reviewer: > That said, I don't think an observer can segment anything any more than it would otherwise. There are numerous > methods to determine the implementation of the immediately preceding link and at the end of the day, the > endorsement signal is offered by your upstream hop, not by the source, so I'm failing to see where the additional > privacy leak is. This is more a curiosity for me because it means I'm failing to understand something you see. > Either way, we can ship with 3 bits if you see fit.

> In practice, I think the only useful values will be at the boundaries (min/max) since the notion of endorsement > represents a willingness to bind your own reputation to the outcome of that htlc. Reputation measurements, and > decisions made based on reputation are ultimately local so propagating intermediate values is likely to not lead > anywhere interesting imo, but there's no harm in putting it in in case I'm wrong.

To clarify the discussion, my understanding is you're proposing to have a link-level encryption of the scalar endorsement value encoded in the 8-bit `endorsed` wire message field by a congruent modulo 0 and then increase the exponent P of this congruent to generate different anonymity sets.

The issue I see with this approach is on the publicity of both the _algorithm_ (`n % (2^P) == 0`) and the _key_ (i.e `P`), as they would be prescribed by the blip spec. To understand the scalar endorsement value, both sender and recipient would need to agree on the version of the blip spec, and as such the value of the key `P`. Anyone with the bolt-2 message transcript can from then decrypt the endorsement encoding to learn  the real scalar endorsement value.

As such, in a world where link-level bolt-2 message transcript are already encrypted by the noise framework, I don't see where is the privacy gain of this additional scheme and how could be constituted anonymity sets (masking either upstream hop version or the real scalar endorsement value itself). 

I don't deny such scheme can be value in the future if you assume (a) a multi-party key distribution (e.g about `P` among source, upstream, downstream hops to selectively assert reputation about a htlc) and (b) a lengthier endorsement field rather than 8-bit only. Though here we're already talking something which is far beyond the design goal of this blip, i.e a minimal and simple signaling scheme to experiment with the local reputation mitigation idea itself.

For all those reasons, I think consuming the 3 least significant bits of the `endorsed` field to encode the endorsement value sounds good enough as an approach for now.

```
bLIP: 4
Title: Experimental Endorsement Signaling
Status: Active
Author: Carla Kirk-Cohen <carla@chaincode.com>
Created: 2024-01-12
License: CC0
```

## Abstract

HTLC endorsement signaling is a [proposed](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1071) 
component of a [hybrid approach](https://research.chaincode.com/2022/11/15/unjamming-lightning) 
to addressing [channel jamming attacks](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/channel-jamming-attacks) 
against the Lightning Network. This bLIP outlines a proposal to deploy an 
experimental endorsement TLV to the network to provide real world data to 
inform specification of reputation algorithms.

## Copyright

This bLIP is licensed under the CC0 license.

## Specification

Experiment Parameters:
* `experiment_start`: [TODO]
* `experiment_end`: [TODO]

### Adding an HTLC: `update_add_htlc`:

1. `tlv_stream`: `update_add_htlc_tlvs`
    1. type: 65555 (`endorsed`)
    2. data:
        * [`byte`:`endorsed`]

The 3 least significant bits of the endorsement TLV are used to represent a 

> scalar endorsement value. A HTLC is considered to be endorsed if it is received

Reviewer: nit: can just say "endorsement value" as no field has been defined for the scalar, imo.

    * otherwise: 
      * SHOULD set `endorsed` to `0`.

## Deployment and Deprecation

### Deployment 

Forwarding nodes can upgrade and being to set `endorsed` signals immediately, 
as there is no privacy risk associated with propagating zero values. Feature 
bit signaling and a flag day are used to allow senders to set `endorsed` to `7`
without leaking their identity as the original sender of the HTLC.

1. Nodes on the network upgrade to support forwarding `endorsed` signals. 
2. Choose a `experiment_start` parameter based on deployment of the 
  `htlc_endorsed` signal on the network.
3. After `experiment_start` has passed, sending nodes start to set `endorsed` 
   to `7` as described above.
4. When `experiment_end` is reached, sending node on the network stop setting 
   the experimental `endorsed` field and intermediate nodes will stop 
   relaying it, so the signal will cease to propagate through the network.

### Deprecation

If `endorsement` is merged to the BOLTs, the experimental signal can be
deprecated in favor of the protocol-range field. If it is not, the signal 
will simply expire when `experiment_end` is reached.

> 1. Upgrade to protocol-range field: 

Reviewer 3: Perhaps I'm missing obvious but what is the `protocol-range` field?

Author: Referring to the range reserved for the specification in [bolt-01](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/01-messaging.md#type-length-value-format), maybe "protocol-range type" instead?

Reviewer 3: Maybe I'm just being dense but a search for the word "range" doesn't yield anything in all of BOLT 1 and if I generalize the idea to mean the reference to the type groupings I see that only specifically applies to the *message* types. Are you referring to just generally the idea of its "official" TLV type?

Author: From bolt 01:
>  type identifiers below 2^16 are reserved for use in this specification

So by range, I mean TLV types 0 - 65535 which are reserved for use in the bolts. 

>  Are you referring to just generally the idea of its "official" TLV type?

Yep, all the TLV type numbers that aren't set aside for custom/experimental use. Protocol is also a bad name for that too because it's all part of the protocol -> non-experimental TLV type?

Reviewer 3: In that case do we actually want to deprecate the experimental field early? Even if we merge it (implying 2 impl interop) we may not want to fragment the network view or maintain the code in two places (<65535 TLV *and* >65535 TLV). I guess I'm just trying to reason about how this plays out if we do the merge.

Author: > In that case do we actually want to deprecate the experimental field early

Good point, originally I thought that we may want to "upgrade" from one signal to another but that actually seems like a bad idea. 

If we get to BOLT merge before `experiment_end`, then we'll have both signals relaying at the same time. Cleaned this up to make them totally independent / just rely on the experiment period ending so that we can more cleanly deprecate this.

Reviewer 3: Yeah that seems like a much better plan 🤝

against the Lightning Network. This bLIP outlines a proposal to deploy an 
experimental endorsement TLV to the network to provide real world data to 
inform specification of reputation algorithms.

## Copyright

This bLIP is licensed under the CC0 license.

## Specification

Experiment Parameters:
* `flag_day`: [TODO]

### Adding an HTLC: `update_add_htlc`:

1. `tlv_stream`: `update_add_htlc_tlvs`
    1. type: 65555 (`endorsed`)
    2. data:
        * [`byte`:`endorsed`]
 
If an `update_add_htlc` irrevocably committed after `flag_day`:

Sender:
* if it is the original source of the HTLC:
  * if it does not expect immediate fulfillment upon receipt by the 
    final destination: 
    * SHOULD set `endorsed` to `0`.
  * otherwise:  
    * SHOULD set `endorsed` to `1`.
* MAY choose to set `endorsed` to `0` for some percentage of payments to 
  prevent leaking its identity as the original sender.

Receiver:
* if `endorsed` is present and non-zero in the `update_add_htlc`:
  * if running an experimental reputation algorithm:
      * SHOULD set `endorsed` as specified by the algorithm.
    otherwise:
      * SHOULD set `endorsed` to `1`.
* otherwise: 

>   * SHOULD set `endorsed` to `0`.

Author: > Or you are using it to signal the endorsed support?

Indeed. I think for the purposes of an experiment, it's useful to know the difference between a zero and null (not set) value? 

For the real spec, we could just not have the field at all (and likely drop it to just be a regular `bool`). Just giving us some leeway for the experimental one :)

>   * SHOULD set `endorsed` to `0`.

Reviewer 4: yeah, I was just in the code that I was rewriting today, and reading the definition it seems to me that a node should expect `0` also if the `endorsed` is not supported (e.g: turning off the experimental feature in cln terms)

In the code current if the feature is turned off the value will be set to `NULL`
